I - UNDER A NEW SUN
KINGDOM OF FRANCE
JUNE 1349
- HUGO: He's right behind, Amicia!
He's going to catch us!
- AMICIA: Keep running!
(TENSE MUSIC PLAYING)
- HUGO: He's too fast!
- AMICIA: We'll make it.
- HUGO: Oh no! The tower!
He's coming!
- LUCAS: Ha! Bloody brambles!
- AMICIA: (LAUGHS)
- LUCAS: You're going too fast for me!
- HUGO: Come on, sorcerer. Catch us!
- AMICIA: Hey, slow down.
You'll exhaust our villan.
- HUGO: This is your tower.
It's evil.
- AMICIA: (CHUCKLES)
- LUCAS: Doesn't he even get tired?
I really should get back to studying.
- AMICIA: Come on.
We have a long journey today.
Please, Mother said to try to exhaust him.
(CHUCKLES)
Be brave, sorcerer.
Your fight is far from over.
- LUCAS: Your Mother's going to wonder
where we are.
- AMICIA: It's been a long road.
You have the right to stretch your legs.
- LUCAS: (EXHALES) Yes...
(RELAXING MUSIC PLAYING)
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
- HUGO: Amicia!
- AMICIA: Look at that!
- LUCAS: A castle.
- HUGO: Let's go see!
Yahhhhhh...
- AMICIA: Alright, then (CHUCKLES).
Time to run.
Hugo, you're gonna sweat like a hog!
- LUCAS: I am sweating like a hog!
- AMICIA: (CHUCKLES) It's good for you!
(PANTING)
I like your new home!
- HUGO: It's a castle!
- AMICIA: (CHUCKLES) Alright.
- HUGO: Lucas The Perfidious
is invading my castle!
- LUCAS: (IN EVIL VOICE) Yes...
And I'm going to turn you into a beetle!
- HUGO: Amicia, he's too powerful!
We have to hide!
- AMICIA: (CHUCKLES) Yes.
- LUCAS: (IN EVIL VOICE) I'll count to ten.
Then I'll come for you!
King Hugo and...
- AMICIA: Amicia The Amazon!
- LUCAS: Of course.
So, go!
Now!!
- HUGO: Come, Amicia The Amazon.
We have to find a good hiding place.
- LUCAS: One...
Two...
Three...
- AMICIA: I'll stand by your side, my King!
Four...
- LUCAS: Five...
- AMICIA: Good.
- LUCAS: Six...
Let's keep an eye on him now.
Seven...
- LUCAS: Eight...
- HUGO: We'll move if he comes.
Nine...
Ten!
I'm coming!!
- HUGO: He's coming! He's coming!
- LUCAS: (IN EVIL VOICE) I smell fear...
I, Lucas The Perfidious
among the perfidious,
...swear to make a stew out of your toes!!
And eat it!
- AMICIA: (CHUCKLES)
- HUGO: (CHUCKLES) He's horrible!
- LUCAS: Ah ha!
Ah ha!
- AMICIA: You know what,
we should hunt him too.
- HUGO: Oh yes (CHUCKLES)
- LUCAS: You are resourceful.
But I will...
The perfidiouses lay its eyes on you.
It's over!
- HUGO: You're too evil!
- AMICIA: Come on, don't despair.
- LUCAS: (IN EVIL VOICE) Too easy!
So... I'll give you a second chance.
- AMICIA: I think we have to move around more
to keep out of sight, my King.
- LUCAS: One...
Two...
Three...
Four...
Five...
Six...
Seven...
(SPEEDS UP) Eight, nine, ten!
I'm coming!!
- HUGO: He's on his way!
- LUCAS: (IN EVIL VOICE) Where are you??
I can smell your fear.
- AMICIA: Let's hunt the hunter again!
- HUGO: Yes! It's the only way to win.
- HUGO & AMICIA: GRURAHHHH!!
- LUCAS: Ha!! Goodness!
- AMICIA: (LAUGHS)
- HUGO: You was so scared!
- LUCAS: (LAUGHS) Fair enough.
Well, I'll get back to studying now.
- AMICIA: Lucas!
- LUCAS: Well, if I want to become an alchemist...
- HUGO: But... you are an alchemist.
- LUCAS: I'm still your Mother's apprentice.
- AMICIA: Alright, go and study.
We'll stay a little longer.
- LUCAS: Right. Goodbye.
- HUGO: Come.
Let's see the rest of the castle!
- AMICIA: As you wish, Good King!
- HUGO: I'm glad Lucas stayed with us.
- AMICIA: Me too.
We wouldn't be here if not for him.
- HUGO: Oh, can I climb these rocks?
- AMICIA: Of course. Just... don't fall.
- HUGO: I never fall.
- AMICIA: (SCOFFS) Yeah, sure.
- HUGO: King Hugo patrols the ramparts
of his Great Wall.
- AMICIA: What can you see from up there?
- HUGO: My kingdom!
- AMICIA: Is it prosperous?
- HUGO: It was...
But then Lucas attacked.
- AMICIA: Oh yes. The infamous sorcerer.
- HUGO: Oh, a river!
It's the sea.
- AMICIA: Let's patrol there.
- HUGO: Woah...
- AMICIA: Very pretty.
So?
- HUGO: This is where my kingdom stops.
- AMICIA: That branch is your frontier?
- HUGO: Yes.
- AMICIA: (SCOFFS) Why not.
- HUGO: Look out, Amicia The Amazon!
Enemy ship's coming!
They're going to attack us!
- AMICIA: Oh no!
What do we do?
- HUGO: Stand the frontier
and sink them before they pass.
- AMICIA: Got it.
My mighty sling is yours.
- HUGO: Here comes the sorcerer's army!
- AMICIA: I see them!
We'll save your land, my King!
One down.
- HUGO: (LAUGHS)
Yes, keep going.
More ships are coming.
- AMICIA: No foul magic will devour this kingdom!
- HUGO: Only good magic!
Yes, the king applauds.
- AMICIA: Let them come,
I'll crush them!
- HUGO: (LAUGHS)
- AMICIA: Many tried to invade us...
- HUGO: ...but we pushed them back!
- AMICIA: Because we are the house of De Rune.
- BOY: Hello!
- AMICIA: Ah, hello!
- HUGO: Hello!
- BOY: I was passing by
and I heard your sling.
- AMICIA: Ah... It can be pretty loud, yes.
- BOY: I wanted to ask you...
Can I play with you?
- AMICIA: Yes, but...
Who are you?
- TONIN: I'm Tonin.
I live nearby.
- AMICIA: Alright.
We're Hugo and Amicia.
- HUGO: Can you shoot, Tonin?
- TONIN: Of course I can.
- HUGO: Great! I'm the King
and she's my captain.
And we're fighting a sorcerer's army.
- TONIN: I'll fire the canon then.
- AMICIA: Now, let's fight!
- TONIN: Wow! Kaboom!!
(LAUGHS) You're good!
- HUGO: But they keep coming!
- AMICIA: And they'll keep sinking!
Our defences are too strong for them!
- HUGO: Soldier Tonin,
keep firing that canon!
- TONIN: Yes...
We're kicking their arses!
- HUGO: Their evil arses!
(LAUGHS)
- AMICIA: Hey, calm down.
You're starting to speak the devil's tongue!
- TONIN: It's war!
There's no place for manners! (LAUGHS)
- HUGO: (LAUGHS)
- AMICIA: Alright, get them the coup de grace, Tonin!
- TONIN: Here comes the cannonball!!
- AMICIA: Oh no, Hugo, take cover!
(EFFORT GRUNT)
(WATER SPLASHES)
- HUGO: BOOM!!
(LAUGHTERS)
- AMICIA: Alright, alright, boys.
You won. They surrendered.
- TONIN: Surrender accepted!
Er... I should go now.
I'm late for work.
- HUGO: You work?
- TONIN: Yes, at my father's farm,
with my brothers.
- AMICIA: Are you alright?
- TONIN: Er... I must go. Bye!
- AMICIA: Good luck then!
- HUGO: Goodbye, Tonin!
He was nice!
- AMICIA: Come along, my King.
The war is over.
Let's keep following the river.
- HUGO: You sunk so many!
You're a great captain.
And Tonin was nice!
- AMICIA: He was, yes.
- HUGO: I'd like to have a friend like him.
- AMICIA: I know.
But we'll settle down soon.
And you'll make friends.
- HUGO: You sure?
- AMICIA: As soon as we know
how you're doing.
- HUGO: Hm..
That could be a long time!
- AMICIA: Not this time.
This time is different. I know it.
- HUGO: I hope so.
- AMICIA: Hmm... We have to climb this.
You pull me up this time.
- HUGO: What?
- AMICIA: Just kidding. I'll help you.
- HUGO: You're too heavy anyway.
- AMICIA: (SCOFFS) How dare you!
- HUGO: One day I'll be able to.
(WATER FLOWING)
Wow! That castle is huge!
- AMICIA: What do you say?
Do we attack it?
- HUGO: Alright. I'm ready!
- AMICIA: Now!
Charge!
- HUGO: Chargeee!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
(PANTING)
The gate is closed, captain.
What do we do?
- AMICIA: Let's me see.
Ha! It's locked up tight.
- HUGO: They saw us coming!
Here, secret path!
- AMICIA: Let's sneak in!
- HUGO: Yes, it's a good plan!
- AMICIA: Oohh... I feel evil around us!
- HUGO: Hm... It's a bit... dark...
- AMICIA: Come on, my King.
They don't expect us to sneak in.
- HUGO: Yes.
- AMICIA: Oh... I think
the sorcerer's men are close.
- HUGO: Really?
(PANTING)
- AMICIA: Are you hurt?
- HUGO: No... But... I want to go back now.
- AMICIA: I agree.
That's enough for today.
- HUGO: Yes. Amicia...
There are food and clothes.
- AMICIA: People live here.
- HUGO: We've broken their ceiling.
Maybe they heard.
- AMICIA: Let's...
Just... be careful for now.
- HUGO: Do you smell that?
It smells like a fireplace.
- AMICIA: Yes.
What?
- HUGO: It's all burnt.
- AMICIA: It's recent.
These baskets...
Their beehives...
- HUGO: But... why... are they burnt?
- AMICIA: I don't know.
Let's be discreet and get out.
- HUGO: Maybe it was an accident?
- AMICIA: Where are the people?
This way.
- HUGO: Amicia.
(TENSE MUSIC PLAYING)
- MAN: Hey!
- AMICIA: What... What's going on?
- MAN: How many of you are there?
- AMICIA: Wait!
We didn't mean to trespass.
We fell here by accident.
We'll leave if you show us how.
- MAN: Lies.
- AMICIA: I swear!
I don't know what's happening here
but we have nothing to do with it.
- MAN: Lies, you bloody thieves!
I'll cut you to pieces!
- AMICIA: Run!
- MAN: Come back here!
- AMICIA: We need an exit!
- HUGO: The door!
- AMICIA: Locked! No no! Come!
- HUGO: He's still behind us!
- AMICIA: Keep an eye out for an exit!
Through here! He won't follow!
- HUGO: Quick!
- AMICIA: Get down, quick!
- MAN 1: I won't come back! I swear!
- MAN 2: Get him!
Stop!
Leave him to me!
- MAN 1: I'm begging you, no!
Please, no!
- MAN 2: You should've thought of that...
...before you lot stole from us!
- MAN 3: Goodness, Mathias!
- MATHIAS: That's how we make sure they don't come back.
- MAN 4: Hey!
I lost two! A boy and a girl!
You didn't see them?
- MAN 3: No, that man on the ground's
the last one we got.
- MATHIAS: Well, kill them if you find them!
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) We must get out of here.
- HUGO: (WHISPERS) Yes, quick.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) They're crazy!
- MATHIAS: What a mess!
Now what use do you have
for our meat and honey, huh?
You're dead!
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) Let's cross, now.
- HUGO: (WHISPERS) They're going to kill us!
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) No,
because they won't see us.
- MAN: Mathias! Come!
They got granddad pretty bad!
- MATHIAS: Shit... No no no! Grandpa!
- HUGO: Amicia, the house!
- AMICIA: Well spotted!
(GROANS)
- MATHIAS: Urhh... Looks bad.
Dad will be back from the market anytime now.
- HUGO: (WHISPERS) We could hide here.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) They'd find us.
We have to keep going.
- MAN: It's bloodbath... Lord...
- AMICIA: Careful!
- MATHIAS: Don't just stand there whining...
There may be still some of them around.
Go help the others.
- MAN: I don't feel well, Mathias.
- MATHIAS: I don't give a damn!
- MAN: It's... whatever!
- HUGO: He won't move!
- AMICIA: I'll handle it.
That toolbox. It'll make a nose.
- MATHIAS: It's the last time they'll come here.
I tell you.
- MAN: You don't have to kill all of them!
You lunatic!
Just needed goddamn work!
Is someone still hiding?
- HUGO: (WHISPERS) Go away.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) Let's be quick!
We get back to the cart, we get away from this place.
- MAN: Nothing here.
- HUGO: (WHISPERS) Mummy will be so angry.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) We just won't tell her.
We'll leave as soon as
we get to the cart anyway.
- MATHIAS: Where's this little shit now?
You were supposed to stand guard!
This is all on you!
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) We're going to
have to climb up. Quietly.
- MATHIAS: Tonin! Get your damn arse
over here right now!!
I'm gonna beat the life out of you.
- HUGO: (WHISPERS) Oh no!
This is where Tonin lives.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) Maybe he's still away.
- HUGO: (WHISPERS) I hope so.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) Let's try through here.
- MAN: At least they didn't damage these ones.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) Stop! Wait!
(BEES BUZZING)
Now!
Ah!
- HUGO: (WHISPERS) Oh no!
- MAN: Who's there?
- HUGO: (WHISPERS) He's coming!
- MAN: What the hell?
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) Let's go!
- HUGO: (WHISPERS) He almost saw us!
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) Yes.
We have to be more careful!
- MATHIAS: Stand guard here!
We'll take turns until tomorrow.
- MAN: Got it!
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) We must reach that door.
I'll need to distract him.
- MAN: ...probably hiding somewhere...
- HUGO: (WHISPERS) Amicia, the pots.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) That would work.
If I throw behind him...
- MAN: The hell?
I've got an axe! I warn you!
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) Now's our chance!
- MAN: Saints protect me.
Well, I must be hallucinating.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) Please, tell me this is our way out!
- HUGO: (WHISPERS) Yes.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) No! They've locked it.
- HUGO: (WHISPERS) Maybe there's another way.
There's a hole here.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) Yes.
- HUGO: (WHISPERS) I can go
and open the door from the other side.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) I wish you didn't have to.
Alright, but be very careful!
- HUGO: (WHISPERS) Don't worry.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) Please, don't get spotted.
Come on, Hugo.
- HUGO: It's too heavy but...
you can open it now.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) Yes, well done!
- HUGO: (WHISPERS) Where are they?
Have they found Tonin?
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) I don't know.
We need a way out.
- HUGO: (WHISPERS) We can't let them hurt him.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) He'll manage.
We must leave, Hugo.
They'll kill us if they catch us.
- HUGO: But... maybe they'll kill him too!
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) Shh... Quiet.
Locked.
That gate over there.
Let's try it.
- TONIN: Stop! Please!
- MATHIAS: You were dad's biggest mistake.
But I will fix it!
- HUGO: Stop!
- AMICIA: Hugo, stay behind me!
- MATHIAS: What?
- TONIN: (GASPS)
- MATHIAS: Who are you?
- AMICIA: We got lost, we're leaving.
Just... let the boy go.
- MATHIAS: You hear that, Remi?
- REMI: Are you with the thieves?
- AMICIA: No, we just arrived.
Listen, it's our fault if he was late.
- MATHIAS: You have no right to be here.
Remi, you handle it.
And don't disappoint me.
- REMI: But... the boy...
- MATHIAS: He's the right age to learn.
- REMI: You shouldn't have come.
- AMICIA: You don't want to do this, believe me!
- REMI: You talk too much!
- HUGO: Stop! Leave her!
(MUSIC INTENSIFIES)
(GROUND CRUMBLING)
(MEN SCREAMING)
(WAVES CRASHING)
Amicia?
Don't hurt me.
Where are we?
(SCREECHING SOUND)
No!
It's starting again!
I need help!
Wait! Wait for me!
Are you... the only one here?
Where's Amicia?
(WAVES CRASHING)
No, don't go!
(SCREECHING SOUND)
(GROANS)
Breathe... breathe...
Where are you going?
I need to go back.
I need my sister, and my Mummy.
Maybe he knows where they are.
Yes... Maybe they're through here!
What?
What is this place?
Amicia?
Mummy?
Lucas?
Where are you?
I feel...
...bad.
(SCREECHING SOUND)
(GROANS)
No... (GROANS)
It hurts...
(GROANS)
Please... Please!
Stop screeching and help me!
Help me!
Find them!
No, not that!
Leave me alone!
Stop... this... noise...
(SCREECHING SOUND)
What do you... want?
You're... You're so noisy...
Alright... I'm coming...
(SCREECHING SOUND)
(GROANS)
Is this... dying?
I don't want... to die...
It's going away...
It's the water...
You save me... Thank you!
Can I come back here?
With someone?
- BÉATRICE: Look who's awake!
- LUCAS: Did you sleep well?
- HUGO: I was dreaming...
Where are we?
- AMICIA: Was it your island dream again?
- HUGO: Yes... I...
I was sick and then
there was a big bird that saves me.
But...
What happened, Amicia?
At the farm?
- AMICIA: We were playing by the river, remember?
But you felt very tired all of the sudden.
So I carried you back and you fell asleep.
- LUCAS: It's probably just a lack of salt in your blood.
- HUGO: But... Amicia...
- BÉATRICE: It's been a long trip, Hugo.
We're all exhausted.
But, the red city's at hand.
We'll get you checked there.
- LUCAS: You know, we're going to meet
a great alchemist there from the Order.
They know the Macula very well.
They've been studying it for centuries.
- AMICIA: Yet they didn't come to help us
in Guyenne. Before we had to flee.
- BÉATRICE: They didn't know
the Inquisition would come after us.
They are ready to welcome us now.
- AMICIA: Let's hope
they'll make up for it then.
- LUCAS: They will.
The Macula is not just in Hugo's blood.
It concerns everybody.
And it can change everything.
- BÉATRICE: What's that?
- AMICIA: I don't know. Be careful.
- BÉATRICE: Let's see.
- MAN 1: Hello there.
- BÉATRICE: Hello.
What's going on?
- MAN 1: We're looking for a boy and a girl.
- BÉATRICE: What did they do, exactly?
- MAN: They trespassed on a family's property.
There was an argument
and men were slaughtered.
The younger brother witnessed it.
- BÉATRICE: Oh that's horrible!
I hope you find the culprits.
- MAN 1: I do, too. The boys are my nephews.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) Mother...
We need to leave... Now...
- BÉATRICE: (WHISPERS) Yes.
Sorry, uh... we still have quite the road ahead of us.
- LUCAS: Hello!
- MAN 1: We won't take long.
- MAN 2: The boy! It's them!
- MAN 1: Come here!
- BÉATRICE: No! Wait!
- HUGO: Amicia!
- MAN 1: You, get the cart!
Don't let them get away!
- MAN 1: I know you're in there somewhere!
Show yourself!
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) My sling...
still in the cart.
- MAN 1: She must be still around.
Open your eyes.
- MAN 2: Let's extend the search to the fields.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) Yes, go away!
- MAN 1: Careful, she's wicked!
She might be right next to you.
Intruders reported. Keep a look out.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERS) The cart...
They need you...
Hugo needs you...
Alright, they must've gone down the hill.
Move fast... Unseen...
Careful, you can do it!
- MAN 1: No! You'll burn everything!
- MAN 2: I don't care...
You killed my sons!
Burn in hell!!
- AMICIA: No, no no!
Run!
The house!
- MAN: You!
- AMICIA: (COUGHS)
Come on.
They're alive!
The cart... My sling...
Get the sling, quick quick!
Come on, yes!
Get back!
- MAN: Get over here!
We've got intruder!
- AMICIA: Bastard!
You had to come back!
Now this is what you get!
(INTENSE MUSIC PLAYING)
Come on, move!
- MAN: I know you're behind this!
(INTENSE MUSIC PLAYING)
- MAN: Everything's clear here.
- AMICIA: Through here. Quick!
- BÉATRICE: Ah... No!!
- AMICIA: Mother? Oh no!
(INTENSE MUSIC PLAYING)
- BÉATRICE: No! Stop!
- AMICIA: Mother! I'm coming!
- BÉATRICE: Spare them, I beg you!
- MAN: Your seed killed my family, demon!
- AMICIA: Stop!
Steady! Don't miss.
- MAN: She's going to hell!
(MUSIC BUILDS UP)
(MUSIC FADES)
- BÉATRICE: (PANTING)
- AMICIA: Hugo!
- LUCAS: He's still breathing.
It's the shock.
- BÉATRICE: It's over.
It's alright.
(SCREECHING SOUND)
TITLE - A PLAGUE TALE: REQUIEM